<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <link href="css/main.css" type="text/css" rel="Stylesheet" />
    <title>CHAPTER 56  </title>
  </head>
  <body class="epub">
    <div class="section1">
      <div class="title2">
        <h2>CHAPTER 56</h2>
      </div>
      <p>What happened next, happened like it was in slow motion, between the beats of a heart.</p>
      <p>I told Kate to jump off the boulder. I jumped, but she was a half second behind</p>
      <p>I never heard the crack of the silenced rifle, but I knew the shot came from the nearby treeline because I could hear the bullet, buzzing like a bee over my head-where I had stood on the boulder a half second before.</p>
      <p>Kate seemed to stumble on the boulder and let out a soft cry of pain, as though she'd twisted her ankle. In an instant, I realized I'd gotten the sequence of events wrong-she'd cried out in pain first, then stumbled. Again, as if it was slow motion, I saw her fall off the side of the boulder near the trail.</p>
      <p>I dove on top of her, wrapped my arms around her, and rolled away from the trail, down a shallow slope and into some thin bushes as another bullet slammed into a rock near our heads, sending splinters of stone and steel into my neck.</p>
      <p>I rolled again, Kate still in my arms, but we were stopped by a thicket of brush. I held her tightly and said, "Don't move."</p>
      <p>We were side by side, my back to the direction of the fire, and I craned my head over my shoulder to try to see what Khalil could see from the treeline, which was less than a hundred yards away.</p>
      <p>There were some bushes and low rocks between us and Khalil's line of fire, but depending on where he was in those trees, he might still have a clear shot.</p>
      <p>I was aware that my suit, dark though it was, did not blend well with the surroundings, and neither did Kate's bright red jacket, but since there was no more firing, I was fairly certain that Khalil had lost us for the time being. Either that, or he was savoring the moment until he fired again.</p>
      <p>I turned and looked into Kate's eyes. They were squinting with pain, and she was starting to writhe in my arms. I said, "Don't move. Kate-talk to me."</p>
      <p>She was breathing hard now, and I couldn't tell where or how badly she'd been hit, but I could feel warm blood now, seeping through my shirt and onto my cold skin. Damn it. "Kate. Talk to me. Talk to me."</p>
      <p>"Oh… I'm… I'm hit."</p>
      <p>"Okay… take it easy. Stay still. Let me check it out…" I moved my right arm between us and felt around under her blouse, my fingers probing for the entry wound, which I couldn't find, though there was blood all over. Oh, God…</p>
      <p>I tilted my head back and looked at her face. There was no blood coming from her mouth or nose, which was hopeful, and her eyes looked clear.</p>
      <p>"Oh… John… damn it… it hurts.'</p>
      <p>Finally, I found the entry wound, a hole just below the bottom of her left rib cage. I quickly ran my hand around the back and found the exit wound just above her buttocks. It seemed to be no more than a deep flesh wound, and there was no spurting blood, but I worried about internal bleeding. I said to her, as you're supposed to do with injured people, "Kate, it's okay. You'll be fine."</p>
      <p>"Are you sure?"</p>
      <p>"Yes."</p>
      <p>She took a deep breath and moved her own hand to the wound, exploring the entry and exit wounds.</p>
      <p>I got a handkerchief out of my pocket and pushed it in her hand. "Hold it there."</p>
      <p>We lay motionless again, side by side, and waited.</p>
      <p>That bullet had been meant for me, of course, but fate, ballistics, trajectories, and timing are what make the difference between a wound that you can show off and a wound that the undertaker has to fill with putty. I said again, "You're okay… it's just a little scratch…"</p>
      <p>Kate put her mouth to my ear, and I could feel her breath on my skin. She said, "John…"</p>
      <p>"Yes?"</p>
      <p>"You're a fucking idiot."</p>
      <p>"Huh…?"</p>
      <p>"But I love you anyway. Now let's get the hell out of here."</p>
      <p>"No. Just stay still. He can't see us, and he can't hit what he can't see."</p>
      <p>I spoke too soon because all of a sudden dirt and rocks started erupting around us, and branches snapped over our heads. I knew Khalil had a general idea of where we were, and he was firing the rest of the fourteen-round magazine at our suspected location. Jesus H. I thought the firing was never going to stop. It's worse when they use a silencer, and all you can hear are the rounds hitting without hearing the crack of the rifle.</p>
      <p>On what must have been his last round, I felt a sharp pain on my hip, and my hand flew back to where I'd been hit. I'd caught a grazing wound across my pelvis, and I could sense that it was deep enough to have chipped the pelvic bone. "Damn it!"</p>
      <p>"John, are you all right?"</p>
      <p>"Yeah."</p>
      <p>"We have to get out of here."</p>
      <p>"Okay, I'll count to three, and we'll run in a crouch through these bushes, but not for more than three seconds, then we dive and roll. Okay?"</p>
      <p>"Okay."</p>
      <p>"One, two-"</p>
      <p>"Hold on! Why don't we go back to that boulder we were standing on?"</p>
      <p>I turned my head and looked back at the boulder. It was less than four feet high, and not even that wide. The rocks around it where we'd been sitting were no more than large stones. But if we could crouch behind the boulder, we'd be safe from direct fire coming from the treeline. I said, "Okay, but it's a little tight behind there."</p>
      <p>"Let's go before he fires again. One, two, three-"</p>
      <p>We sprang up into a crouch and ran toward the boulder-which was also toward Khalil.</p>
      <p>About halfway there, I heard that familiar buzzing over my head, but Khalil had to fire above the boulder we were running for, and he wasn't sitting high enough in the tree to get a steep enough angle to pick us off.</p>
      <p>Kate and I hit the rock, spun around, and sat side by side very close together, our knees up to our chests. She pressed the bloody handkerchief to her left side.</p>
      <p>We sat there a second and caught our breath. I didn't hear any buzzing overhead, and I wondered if the bastard had the balls to leave the cover of the trees and was coming toward us. I pulled my Clock, took a deep breath, poked my head around the rock, and scanned the open space very quickly before pulling my head back in, just in time to avoid having it blown off by a well-placed shot that chipped the side of the boulder. "This guy knows how to shoot."</p>
      <p>"What the fuck are you doing? Just sit here."</p>
      <p>"Where did you learn to swear like that?"</p>
      <p>"I have never sworn so much in my life till I met you."</p>
      <p>"Really?"</p>
      <p>"Sit and shut up."</p>
      <p>"Okay."</p>
      <p>So, we sat there, oozing blood, but not enough to attract sharks, or whatever they had around there. Asad Khalil was strangely quiet and I was getting nervous about what he was up to. I mean, the asshole could be twenty feet away, slithering through the bush.</p>
      <p>I said, "I'm going to fire a few shots in the air to attract attention and to keep Khalil away."</p>
      <p>"No. If you attract some Secret Service people here, Khalil will pick them off. I don't want that on my conscience. We're not in any danger. Just sit."</p>
      <p>I wasn't sure that we weren't in any danger, but the rest of it made sense. So, John Corey, man of action, just sat. After a minute, I said, "Maybe I can attract Ted's attention, then he and Khalil can have a shooting contest."</p>
      <p>"Sit and be quiet. Listen for any sounds in the bush."</p>
      <p>"Good idea."</p>
      <p>Kate shimmied out of her red jacket, which was nearly the same color as the blood that soaked it. She tied the sleeves around her waist, fashioning a pressure tourniquet over the wounds.</p>
      <p>Kate reached into one of her jacket pockets and said, "I'll call the Sea Scape Motel and advise them of our situation so they can alert the Secret Service here and…"</p>
      <p>She kept searching through her pockets, then said, "I can't find my cell phone."</p>
      <p>Uh-oh.</p>
      <p>We both felt around on the ground. Kate reached too far to her left side, and the ground exploded inches from her hand. She pulled her hand in, like she'd touched a hot stove, and stared at the back of it. She said, "My, God, I felt that round brush my knuckle… but… I'm not actually hit… I felt the heat or something…"</p>
      <p>"The man can shoot. Meanwhile, where's the cell phone?"</p>
      <p>She rummaged around her jacket and pants pockets again and announced, "It must have fallen out of my pocket when we were rolling. Damn it."</p>
      <p>We both stared out at the brush-covered slope in front of us, but there was no way to know where the phone was, and for sure neither of us was going to go searching for it.</p>
      <p>So, we sat there, listening for the sound of someone moving toward us. In a way, I hoped the bastard was coming for us because I knew he'd have to come around the boulder or over the top of it, and we'd hear him. I wanted at least one shot at him. But if he circled wide, we wouldn't see or hear him, and he had the rifle with the scope. I suddenly felt less safe on this side of the boulder, knowing that Khalil could be circling around into the bushes we'd just come from.</p>
      <p>She said, "Sorry about the phone."</p>
      <p>"Not your fault. I guess I should get a cell phone."</p>
      <p>"Not a bad idea. I'll buy one for you."</p>
      <p>A helicopter flew by, about a quarter mile away, but he didn't see us, or sense us-or Khalil-with whatever sensing device he had. Neither did Khalil fire at him, which would have been an easy shot. This led me to believe that Asad Khalil was gone-or, Mr. Khalil was holding his fire because he really wanted me. Now there's an upsetting thought.</p>
      <p>Anyway, I'd had enough of this bullshit. I got out of my jacket, and before Kate could stop me, I stood quickly and waved the jacket to my side, like a matador messing around with the bull's horns. Unlike a matador, however, I got rid of the jacket real quick as I ducked behind the boulder, just in time to hear the little buzz that ventilated the jacket and snapped some branches off to our side.</p>
      <p>Before Kate could yell at me, I said, "I think he's still in the treeline."</p>
      <p>"And how do you know that?"</p>
      <p>"The shot came from that direction. I could tell by the buzzing and the impact, and there was a half-second delay, like he was still a hundred yards away."</p>
      <p>"Are you making this up?"</p>
      <p>"Sort of."</p>
      <p>Well, back to the game of nerves. Just when I thought Khalil was winning, Mr. Steely Assassin became frustrated and started shooting again. The prick was amusing himself by firing chip shots across the top of the boulder and shards of stone were spraying into the air, and falling down on us.</p>
      <p>He fired a full magazine, then reloaded and began firing on either side of the boulder so that the strike of the rounds was just inches from our tucked-up legs. I watched, fascinated, as the pebbly earth exploded into little craters.</p>
      <p>I said to Kate, "This guy is an asshole."</p>
      <p>She didn't reply, mesmerized by the flying dirt around us.</p>
      <p>Khalil then shifted his aim closer to the sides of the boulder, and the guy was good, just skimming the sides inches from our shoulders. The boulder was getting a little smaller. I said to Kate, "Where'd he learn to shoot like that?"</p>
      <p>She replied, "If I had a rifle, I'd show him how to shoot." She added, "If I'd had a vest, I wouldn't be bleeding."</p>
      <p>"Remember that for next time." I took her hand and squeezed it. "How you doing?"</p>
      <p>"Okay… it's hurting like hell now."</p>
      <p>"Hang in there. He'll get tired of playing with his gun."</p>
      <p>She asked me, "How are you?"</p>
      <p>"I have a new wound to show the girls."</p>
      <p>"How'd you like another one?"</p>
      <p>I squeezed her hand again and said, stupidly, "His and her wounds."</p>
      <p>"That's not even funny. This fucking thing is throbbing."</p>
      <p>I untied her jacket, put my hand around her back, and gently felt the exit wound.</p>
      <p>She let out a cry of pain.</p>
      <p>I said, "It's starting to clot. Try not to move and break the clot. Keep holding the entry wound with the handkerchief."</p>
      <p>"I know, I know, I know. God, this hurts."</p>
      <p>"I know." Been there, done that. I retied the jacket around her waist.</p>
      <p>Khalil had another idea and started firing at the smaller rocks around us, causing ricochets, like a pool player trying to make a shot from behind the eight ball. The rocks were sandstone, and most of them shattered, but now and then Khalil got his ricochet, and one of the rounds actually struck the boulder above my head. I said to Kate, "Tuck your head and face between your legs." I added, "Persistent little bastard, isn't he?"</p>
      <p>She tucked her head between her knees and said, "He really doesn't like you, John. You've inspired him to new levels of creativity."</p>
      <p>"I do that to people."</p>
      <p>All of a sudden, I felt a sharp pain in my right thigh, and I realized he'd gotten me with a ricochet. "Damn!"</p>
      <p>"What's the matter?"</p>
      <p>I felt where the hot round had hit me and discovered a tear in my pants and a rip in my flesh. I felt around the ground near my thigh and found the still-warm distorted bullet, which I held up. "Seven point six-two millimeter, steel jacketed, military round, probably from an M-14 modified as a sniper rifle with interchangeable night and day scopes, plus silencer and flash suppressor. Just like the one Gene had."</p>
      <p>"Who gives a shit?"</p>
      <p>"Just making conversation." I added, "Also, just like the one Ted had."</p>
      <p>We let that sit awhile, putting some silly thoughts out of our minds. I added, "Of course, the M-14 is a fairly common Army surplus rifle, and I didn't mean to suggest anything by mentioning that Ted happened to have one."</p>
      <p>Finally, Kate said, "He could have killed us at the VORTAC station."</p>
      <p>To continue the paranoid moment, I pointed out, "He wouldn't whack us so close to where Gene dropped us off to meet him."</p>
      <p>She didn't reply.</p>
      <p>Of course, I didn't really think it was Ted who was trying to kill us. Ted wouldn't do that. Ted wanted to come to our wedding. Right? But you never know. I put the spent bullet in my pocket.</p>
      <p>We sat there for a quiet five minutes, and I figured-whoever he was-he was gone, but I had no intention of finding out for sure.</p>
      <p>I could hear helicopters circling in the distance and hoped that eventually one of them would see us.</p>
      <p>Despite the pain in my pelvis, I was starting to drift off. I was totally exhausted and also dehydrated, so I thought I was getting delirious when I heard a phone ring. I opened my eyes. "What the hell…?"</p>
      <p>Kate and I stared down the slope to where the phone was ringing. I still couldn't see it, but I had a general idea of where it was. I could tell now that it wasn't more than twenty feet away. It was actually directly in front of us, and if I ran out to it, I'd be blocked from Khalil's line of sight by the boulder. Maybe.</p>
      <p>Before I could decide if I wanted to risk it, the phone stopped ringing. I said, "If we can get that phone, we can call for help."</p>
      <p>Kate replied, "If we go out to get that phone, we won't need any help. We'll be dead."</p>
      <p>"Right."</p>
      <p>We kept staring at the spot where the phone had been ringing. It began ringing again.</p>
      <p>It's a fact that a sniper can't continually stare through a telescopic lens without getting eye and arm fatigue, so he has to take short breaks. Maybe Khalil was on a break. In fact, maybe Khalil was calling us. He can't shoot and talk at the same time. Right?</p>
      <p>Before I thought about it too much longer, I sprang forward in a crouch, covered the twenty feet in two seconds, located the ringing phone, scooped it up, spun around, and charged back toward the boulder, keeping the boulder between me and Khalil's line of fire. Before I reached the boulder, I pitched the ringing phone to Kate, who caught it.</p>
      <p>I hit the boulder, spun, and fell into a sitting position, wondering why I was still alive. I took a few deep breaths.</p>
      <p>Kate had the phone to her ear and was listening. She said into the phone, "Fuck you." She listened again and said, "Don't tell me how a woman should talk. Fuck you."</p>
      <p>I had the feeling that wasn't Jack Koenig.</p>
      <p>She put the phone to her chest and said to me, "Are you very brave, or very stupid? How could you do that without consulting me? Would you rather be dead than married? Is that it?"</p>
      <p>"Excuse me, who's on the phone?"</p>
      <p>Kate handed the phone to me. "Khalil wants to say goodbye."</p>
      <p>We looked at each other, embarrassed, I think, by our brief suspicions that it was Ted Nash, our compatriot, who had been trying to kill us. I had to get out of this business.</p>
      <p>I said to her, "You ought to get your number changed." I put the phone to my ear and said, "Corey."</p>
      <p>Asad Khalil said to me, "You're a very lucky man."</p>
      <p>"God is looking after me."</p>
      <p>"He must be. I don't often miss."</p>
      <p>"We all have off days, Asad. Go home and practice."</p>
      <p>"I admire your courage and your good humor in the face of death."</p>
      <p>"Thanks so much. Hey, why don't you get out of that tree, put down your rifle, and come across that field with your hands up? I'll see that you get treated fairly by the authorities."</p>
      <p>He laughed and said, "I am not in the tree. I am on my way home. I just wanted to say good-bye and to remind you that I will be back."</p>
      <p>"Looking forward to a rematch."</p>
      <p>"Fuck you."</p>
      <p>"A religious man shouldn't talk like that."</p>
      <p>"Fuck you."</p>
      <p>"No, fuck you, Asad, and fuck the camel you rode up on."</p>
      <p>"I will kill you and kill that whore you are with, if it takes me all of my life."</p>
      <p>I'd obviously gotten him angry again, so to direct his anger toward more constructive goals, I reminded him, "Don't forget to first get things straightened out with Uncle Moammar. Also, it was a guy named Habib Nadir who killed your father in Paris, on orders of Moammar. You know this guy?"</p>
      <p>There was no reply, and neither did I expect one. The phone went dead, and I handed it back to Kate. "He and Ted would like each other."</p>
      <p>So, we sat there, not quite trusting Khalil to be hotfooting it through the mountains, especially after that last conversation. Maybe I needed to take a Dale Carnegie course.</p>
      <p>Kate called the Sea Scape Motel and got Kim Rhee on the phone. She explained our situation and present position sitting behind a boulder, and Kim said she'd get some Secret Service people to us. Kate added, "Tell them to be careful. I'm not sure if Khalil is actually gone."</p>
      <p>She signed off and said to me, "You think he's gone?"</p>
      <p>"I think so. The Lion knows when to run and when to attack."</p>
      <p>"Right."</p>
      <p>To lighten the moment, I asked her, "What's the difference between an Arab terrorist and a woman with PMS?"</p>
      <p>"Tell me."</p>
      <p>"You can reason with an Arab terrorist."</p>
      <p>"That's not funny."</p>
      <p>"Okay, then what's the definition of a moderate Arab?"</p>
      <p>"What?"</p>
      <p>"A guy who ran out of ammuniton."</p>
      <p>"That's funny."</p>
      <p>The sun got warm and burned off the remaining fog. We held hands, waiting for a chopper to get to us, or a vehicle or foot patrol to come by.</p>
      <p>Kate said, as if to herself, "This was a taste of things to come."</p>
      <p>Indeed it was. And Asad Khalil, or the next guy like him, would be back with some new grudge, and we'd send a cruise missile into somebody's house in retaliation, and round and round it goes. I said to Kate, "You want to get out of this business?"</p>
      <p>"No. Do you?"</p>
      <p>"Only if you do."</p>
      <p>"I like it," she said.</p>
      <p>"Whatever you like, I like."</p>
      <p>"I like California."</p>
      <p>"I like New York."</p>
      <p>"How about Minnesota?"</p>
      <p>"Is that a city or a state?"</p>
      <p>Eventually, a helicopter spotted us, and after determining that we weren't crazed Arab terrorists, it landed, and we were carried on board.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>