<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title xmlns:xml="http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/namespace" xml:lang="en-US">Volume 1: The Melancholy of Suzumiya Haruhi</title>
  <meta content="Volume1: The Melancholy of Suzumiya Haruhi" xmlns:xml="http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/namespace" xml:lang="en-US" name="DCTERMS.title" />
  <meta content="en-US" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646" name="DCTERMS.language" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/styles.css" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
  <div class="chapter-wrapper" id="Authors_Notes">
    <h2 id="heading_id_12">Author’s notes</h2>

    <p class="first-indent">Sometimes, I wonder if the total amount of words one can write has been decided since birth. If everyone has a set amount of words to write in their lifetime, then their writing volume will decrease as they grow older. Once I think of that, I’d lose the will to write, and concentrate on calculation. For example, I aim to write a draft of about 300 pages with 400 words on each page, but the best answer is that it just doesn’t seem possible to achieve. Even if I write a 120,000 word story a day, and on average I type one word per second, then it’ll take me at least 33 hours to complete; that is of course, impossible for me. Perhaps there’s someone who can do it? But I can’t prove if that person exists.</p>

    <p>Since I don’t know what else to say, let’s change the subject! Really, cats are wonderful animals; they’re adorable, lazy, and they meow. Though it can be a headache wondering just what they’re up to, I don’t intend to defend their actions. As long as people think that cats are adorable, that’ll do for me.</p>

    <p>Let’s talk about something else again. I never thought I would win a prize with this book. I’m really surprised, actually. When I received the phone call notifying me of the result, at first I wondered if I’d heard correctly. Then I wondered if I was going insane, and then I questioned whether the phone was working properly, doubting reality, and wondering if the world had stopped spinning.</p>

    <p>Finally, when I thought “this seems real after all”, I found myself grabbing my cat’s legs and spinning ecstatically. I even got scratched a few times. As I looked at the scars on my hand, I thought, “If some people are fated to have good luck, then I’ve probably used up all my good luck by now.” Anyway, I was so mentally shocked that parts of my memory have now been lost, so I can’t remember the details, but it should be something like that.</p>

    <p>I believe the publishers and editors who worked long hours to get this book published probably had a harder time than me as an author. Right now I can’t think of any words to express my gratitude to them. I don’t know how to express my gratefulness, especially to the judges. Right now I’m still trying to find a new word to describe my thankfulness, but I believe it would be a newly created word that no one would understand. Anyway, I thank everyone from the bottom of my heart.</p>

    <p>Right now I’m standing on a brand new starting line. Maybe I’ll trip and fall at the sound of the gunshot. I don’t even know where the track will lead me, if it even has an end, or whether I get to take a break and drink some water along the way, but I do hope to finish this long and arduous journey. Now is not the time to talk about this in a relaxed manner!</p>

    <p>Finally, I would like to thank everyone involved in the editing and publishing of this book, and every reader who has read this book has my endless gratitude. That’s it for now!</p>

    <p><br /></p>

    <p class="first-indent">—Tanigawa Nagaru</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>
