<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <link href="css/main.css" type="text/css" rel="Stylesheet" />
    <title>CHAPTER 25  </title>
  </head>
  <body class="epub">
    <div class="section1">
      <div class="title2">
        <h2>CHAPTER 25</h2>
      </div>
      <p>At 5.30 A.M., Asad Khalil rose, took a wet towel from the bathroom and wiped all the surfaces where he might have left fingerprints. He prostrated himself on the floor, said his morning prayers, then dressed, and left the motel room. He put his overnight bag in the Mercury, and walked back to the motel office, carrying the wet towel.</p>
      <p>The young desk clerk was sleeping in his chair and the television was still on.</p>
      <p>Khalil came around the counter with his towel-wrapped Clock in his hand. He put the pistol to the man's head and pulled the trigger. The young clerk and the wheeled chair flew into the counter. Khalil pushed the young man's body beneath the counter and took his wallet from his hip pocket, then took the money out of the cash drawer. He found the stack of registration slips and receipt copies, and put them all in his pocket, then wiped his key tag with the wet towel and returned his key to the keyboard.</p>
      <p>He looked up at the security camera, which he'd noticed earlier and which had recorded not only his arrival but also the entire murder and robbery. He followed the wire to a small back room where he found the video recorder. He pulled the tape out and put it in his pocket, then went back to the counter where he found an electrical switch marked MOTEL SIGN. He shut it off, then shut off the lights in the office, walked out the door, and went back to his car.</p>
      <p>There was a damp fog hanging in the air, which obscured everything beyond a few meters. Khalil pulled out of the parking lot without headlights and didn't turn them on until he was fifty meters down the road.</p>
      <p>He re-traced his route and approached the Capital Beltway. Before he entered, he pulled into the big parking lot of a strip mall, found a storm sewer drain, and pushed the registration cards, receipts, and video cassette through the metal grate. He took the cash out of the clerk's wallet and threw the wallet into the drain.</p>
      <p>He got back into his car and entered the Capital Beltway.</p>
      <p>It was six in the morning and a faint dusk came out of the east, illuminating the fog. There was little traffic on the road on this Sunday morning, and neither did Khalil see any police cars.</p>
      <p>He followed the Beltway south, then it curved west and crossed the Potomac River, then continued west until it went north and crossed the Potomac again. He was circling the city of Washington, like a lion, he thought, stalking his prey.</p>
      <p>Khalil programmed the Satellite Navigator with the address he needed in Washington and exited the Beltway at Pennsylvania Avenue.</p>
      <p>He continued on Pennsylvania Avenue, heading directly into the heart of the enemy capital.</p>
      <p>At 7:00 A.M. he drove up to Capitol Hill. The fog had lifted, and the huge white-domed Capitol Building sat in the morning sunshine. Khalil drove around the Capitol, then stopped and parked near the southeast side. He removed his camera from the overnight bag and took photos of the sunlit building. He noticed a young couple about fifty meters away doing the same. This photography was not necessary, he knew, and he could have passed the time elsewhere, but he thought these photographs would amuse his compatriots in Tripoli.</p>
      <p>He could see police cars within the gated area around the Capitol Building, but none on the street around him.</p>
      <p>At 7:25 A.M., he got back in his car and drove the few blocks to Constitution Avenue. He drove slowly down the tree-lined street of town houses and located number 415. A car was parked in the narrow driveway, and he saw a light on in the third-floor window. He kept going, circled around the block, and parked his car a half block from the house.</p>
      <p>Khalil put both Glocks in his jacket pockets, and waited, watching the house.</p>
      <p>At 7:45 A.M., a middle-aged man and woman came out the front door. The lady was well dressed and the man wore the blue uniform of an Air Force general. Khalil smiled.</p>
      <p>They had told him in Tripoli that General Terrance Waycliff was a man of habit, and his habit was to attend religious services at the National Cathedral every Sunday morning. The General would almost always attend the 8:15 service, but had been known to attend the 9:30 service. This morning it was the 8:15 service, and Khalil was pleased that he didn't have to waste another hour somewhere.</p>
      <p>Khalil watched the General escort his wife to their car. The man was tall and slender, and though his hair was gray, he walked like a younger man. In 1986, Khalil knew, General Waycliff had been Captain Waycliff, and the radio call sign on his F-lll had been Remit 22. Captain Waycliff's fighter-bomber had been one of the four in the attack squadron that had bombed Al Azziziyah. Captain Waycliff's weapons officer had been Colonel-then Captain-William Hambrecht, who had met his fate in London in January. Now General Waycliff would meet a similar fate in Washington.</p>
      <p>Khalil watched as the General opened the door for his wife, then went around, got into the driver's side, and backed out of the driveway.</p>
      <p>Khalil could have killed both of them right there and then on this quiet Sunday morning, but he chose to do it another way.</p>
      <p>Khalil straightened his tie, then exited and locked his car.</p>
      <p>He walked to the front door of the General's house and pushed the doorbell. He heard chimes ringing inside the house.</p>
      <p>He heard footsteps and kept back from the door so his face could be seen through the peephole. Khalil heard the metallic scrape of what he thought was a chain being put on the door, then the door opened a crack, and he could see the hanging chain and a young woman's face. She started to say something, but Khalil slammed his shoulder into the door. The chain snapped and the door swung in, knocking the woman to the floor. Khalil was inside in a second and closed the door behind him as he pulled his pistol. "Silence."</p>
      <p>The young woman lay on the marble floor, a look of terror in her eyes.</p>
      <p>He motioned her to her feet and she stood. He regarded her a moment. She was a small woman, dressed in a robe, barefoot, and her complexion was dark. This was the housekeeper, according to his information, and no one else lived in the house. To be certain, he asked, "Who is home?"</p>
      <p>She replied in accented English, "General home."</p>
      <p>Khalil smiled. "No. General is not home. Is General's children home?"</p>
      <p>She shook her head, and he could see she was trembling.</p>
      <p>Khalil smelled coffee coming from somewhere and said to her, "Kitchen."</p>
      <p>She turned hesitatingly and walked through the long foyer of the town house to the kitchen in the rear, Khalil behind her.</p>
      <p>Khalil looked around the big kitchen and saw two plates and two coffee cups on the round table near a big, curved window in the rear.</p>
      <p>Khalil said to her, "Basement. Downstairs." He motioned down.</p>
      <p>She pointed to a wooden door in the wall. He said, "You go down."</p>
      <p>She went to the door, opened it, turned on a light switch, and went down the basement stairs. Khalil followed.</p>
      <p>The basement was filled with boxes and cartons, and Khalil looked around. He found a door and opened it, revealing a small room that held the heating unit. He motioned the young woman inside, and as she passed him and took a step into the boiler room, Khalil fired a single shot into the back of her head where the skull met the spinal column. She fell forward and was dead before she hit the floor.</p>
      <p>Khalil closed the door and went upstairs into the kitchen. He found a carton of milk in the refrigerator and drank the entire contents from the carton, then threw it in a trash bin. He also found containers of yogurt and he removed two from the refrigerator, took a coffee spoon from the table, and ate both yogurts quickly. He didn't realize how hungry he was until he smelled food.</p>
      <p>Khalil went back through the foyer to the front door. He unhooked the metal slide from the hanging chain and pressed the slide and its screws back into the wooden frame from which it had been torn. He left the door locked, but unchained, so that the General and his wife could let themselves in.</p>
      <p>He looked around the ground floor, finding only a large dining room off the kitchen, a sitting room across the foyer, and a small lavatory.</p>
      <p>He went up the stairs to the second floor where a large living room took up the entire floor of the town house, and he could see that no one was there. He continued up the stairs to the third floor where the bedrooms were. He checked each of them. Two of the bedrooms were obviously for the General's children, a girl and a boy, and Khalil found himself wishing they were home and sleeping. But the rooms were empty. The third room seemed to be for guests, and the fourth bedroom was the master bedroom.</p>
      <p>Khalil proceeded up to the fourth floor, which held a large den and a very small bedroom, which he guessed was that of the housekeeper.</p>
      <p>Khalil looked around the wood-paneled den, noting all the military memorabilia on the walls, on the desk, and on a side table.</p>
      <p>A model of an F-lll hung on nylon strings from the ceiling, its nose pointed down, its swing wings swept back as though it were diving in for an attack. Khalil noticed four silver bombs under its wings. He pulled the model from its strings and with his hands crushed and ripped it apart, letting the plastic pieces fall to the floor where he ground them into the carpet with his foot. "May God damn you all to hell."</p>
      <p>He got himself under control and continued his examinations of the den. On the wall was a black-and-white photo of eight men, standing in front of an F-lll fighter-bomber. The photo had a printed caption which read LAKENHEATH, APRIL 13, 1987. Khalil read it again. This was not the correct year of the bombing attack, but then he realized that the names of these men as well as their mission were secret, and thus the General misdated the photograph, even here in his private office. Clearly, Khalil thought, these cowardly men gained no honor from what they had done.</p>
      <p>Khalil moved to the large mahogany desk and examined the odds and ends on the desktop. He found the General's daybook and opened it to Sunday, April 16. The General had noted, "Church, 8:15, National."</p>
      <p>There were no further entries for Sunday, Khalil noted, so perhaps no one would notice that the General was missing until he failed to report to work.</p>
      <p>Khalil looked at Monday and saw that the General had a meeting at 10:00 A.M, By that time, another of the General's squadron mates would be dead.</p>
      <p>Khalil looked at the entry for April 15, the anniversary of the attack, and read, "Nine A.M., conference call, squadron."</p>
      <p>Khalil nodded. So, they stayed in communication. This could be a problem, especially as they began to die, one after the other. But Khalil had expected that some of them might still be in communication. If he acted quickly enough, by the time they realized they were all dying, they would all be dead.</p>
      <p>He found the General's personal telephone book beside his phone and opened it. He quickly scanned the book and saw the names of the other men in the photograph. Khalil noted with satisfaction that Colonel Hambrecht's entry was marked DECEASED. He also noted that the address of the man called Chip Wiggins was crossed out with a red question mark beside his name.</p>
      <p>Khalil considered taking the telephone book, but its absence would be noted by the police, and this would call into question the motive for the murder that was about to take place.</p>
      <p>He put the telephone book back on the desk, then wiped it and the leather daybook with a handkerchief.</p>
      <p>He opened the desk drawers. In the middle drawer he discovered a silver-plated.45 caliber automatic pistol. He checked to see that the magazine was fully loaded, then slid back the mechanism, and chambered a round. He moved the safety to the off position and put the pistol in his waistband.</p>
      <p>Khalil walked to the door, then stopped, turned around, and carefully picked up the pieces of the F-lll model, putting them into a wastebasket.</p>
      <p>He then went back down to the third floor and ransacked each of the bedrooms, taking money, jewelry, watches, and even a few of the General's military decorations. He put everything into a pillowcase, then went down to the kitchen on the first floor, carrying the pillowcase. He found a carton of orange juice in the refrigerator, and sat at the General's kitchen table.</p>
      <p>The wall clock said five minutes to nine. The General and his wife would be home by nine-thirty if, indeed, they were people of habit and punctuality. By nine-forty-five, they would both be dead.</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>